---
layout: post
title: Best Practices for Referral Marketing
date:  2018-09-23 06:57:48 +0200
type: post
description: Best Practices for Referral Marketing key notes from David Folwell presentation
image: https://blogmedia.evbstatic.com/wp-content/uploads/wpmulti/sites/8/2018/06/05104943/iStock-693210524.jpg
---

## Key facts

1. People are 4 times more likely to buy when referred by a friend.<br>
  Due to the factor of the internet where more and more content is   created, referral is becoming more valuable as it’s a way of cutting through the noise.

2. 92% of consumers trust referrals from people they know

3. 82% of employers rated employee referrals above all other sources of generating the best return on investment (ROI).<br>
Considered to be one of the best cost/quality technique of hiring with highest retention.

## What happens if you don’t start a digital referral program?

You could miss 40% to 80% of your potential referrals.

A Digital tool will empower your user to promote your brand.

## Comparison of the old way (Analog referrals) vs the New way (Digital referrals)

### Analog referrals aka The old way

#### Rely on memory

Expect your customers to rely on their memory.

#### Require conversations

In the example of employee referral program, after an interview you ask the interviewee if he knows someone who can be a good fit at this position.

#### Track manually

A manual process using a tool like a spreadsheet.

#### Scale slowly

It’s requires manual work and scale slowly.

### Digital referrals aka The new way

#### Create digital ambassadors

Create digital brand ambassadors who are able to share their stories on social media, blogs and text.

#### Enable social sharing

Scale out the number of people they can reach.

#### Automate tracking

Track the results of the referral program you are running.

#### Scale rapidly

Scale rapidly by removing the real-time in person conversations.

## Why implement

- You will grow your business faster

- Firms implement it increment referrals by up to 60% in the first 90 days.

## The basics


### Definitions

#### Brand ambassadors

Customer/promoter who will share your product with friends.

#### Referral leads

New lead of customer referred by a brand ambassador.

### How it works

1. Invite brand ambassadors

2. Give brand ambassadors a unique link

3. Create a dashboard for ambassadors

4. Tell them how to share your program

5. Watch your sales from referrals grow

## How to launch

### Step 1: Goals & Metrics

- Identify your referral program goals

- Review your competitors (and take a look at Uber, Lyft, Dropbox, and Airbnb, too)

- Consider your NPS<br>
  Consider starting your referral program after making sure you have a positive NPS otherwise it might not work as people tend to promote brands they love.

- Be realistic

### Step 2: Platform selection

Find a referral software partner or hire a development team.

- Buy: Access a team of experts and millions of dollars worth of development for a monthly or annual fee

- Build: Hire an awesome team of developers and expect 3 to 9 months of development

### Step 3: Build

- Get your message right (emphasize value adds)

- Identify why people will refer (For Airbnb, it’s travel)

- Create a list of customers/promoters

- Write a referral email copy (be brief, friendly, and to the point)

- Identify promotion locations in email, website, and social media

### Step 4: Go Live

- Place links/widgets on your site

- Send emails to your customers

- Test different messaging to identify what converts the best

- Reach out to your promoters and ask for feedback on the program

### Step 5: Insider secrets

- Use text messaging: 8x response rates

- Automate your referral outreach

- Identify promoters and give extra love

- Write like a third grader (proven to have best response rates)

- Use a dual-sided referral program to increase sharing

- Keep it simple

## SEO Benefits

- Get 100s of new landing pages generated by your customers

- Gain awareness (and links) from brand ambassadors' blogs and social shares

- Grow traffic by 1,000s of page views organically

- Drive sales without hiring more sales personnel

## Recommended tools

- <a href="https://delighted.com" title="Delighted" rel="nofollow">Delighted</a>: Get your NPS and identify potential brand ambassadors

- <a href="https://Hubspot.com" title="Hubspot" rel="nofollow">Hubspot</a>: Promote your referral program

- <a href="https://textus.com/" title="textus" rel="nofollow">TextUs</a>: Send text invites to brand ambassadors

- <a href="https://clickflow.com/" title="Clickflow" rel="nofollow">Clickflow.io</a>: Test your page titles to improve SEO

- <a href="https://ReferralCandy.com/" title="ReferralCandy" rel="nofollow">ReferralCandy</a>: My favorite eCommerce referral program

- <a href="https://Birdeye.com/" title="Birdeye" rel="nofollow">Birdeye</a>: Manage your online reputation and identify promoters

- <a href="https://staffingreferrals.com/" title="tStaffing Referralsextus" rel="nofollow">Staffing Referrals</a>: My favorite referral platform


## Question

Q- Is Referral marketing the same as Influencer marketing?

A- It’s not exactly the same, some influencer might take advantage of your referral program